---
title: Collegeboard 5.3 & 5.4
layout: default
categories: [trimester 2]
description: 
---

### Intentional or Purposeful bias Group Discussion

*“What age groups use Facebook” vs “… TikTok”? What does the data say? Is there purposeful exclusion in these platforms? Is it harmful? Should it be corrected? Is it good business?*

- People who use Facebook are generally 24 to 35
- People who use TikTok are generally 13 to 17
- Younger individual tend to use Tiktok more than Facebook
- There is no purposeful exclusion because anyone can download the app and use the social media. It is not harmful,.
- Having age separation is harmful for business because the company can target a larger demographic and could be corrected to bridge the ideological gap between old and young.

*Why do virtual assistants have female voices? Amazon, Alexa Google, Apple Siri. Was this purposeful? Is it harmful? Should it be corrected? Is it good business?*

- Virtual assistants have female voices because females are seen as more gentler and women's voices are able to be articulated more clearly.
- I don't think this feature is harmful, however, the action could be corrected to be more equitable.
- The business can be corrected so that during setup, the user can choose between women and male voices. 

*Talk about an algorithm that influences your decisions, think about these companies (ie FAANG - Facebook, Amazon, Apple,Netflix, Google)*

- Social media, such as TikTok, will recommend a video that will fit your liking on your For You Page. This influences my decisions because their may be certain ads or videos that will pique my interests and make me waste more time on social media. Ads that cater to my liking will make me want to purchase more goods.


### Racist HP Video

Does the owner of the computer think this was intentional?

- no

If yes or no, justify you conclusion.

- 

How do you think this happened?

- The people that tested the computer were probably all white. The creators did not accurately test the program.

Is this harmful? Was it intended to be harmful or exclude?
Should it be corrected?
What would you or should you do to produce a better outcome?

### Crowdsourcing

CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?
What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better with crowdsourcing?
What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.